---
title: Sensor - Server
---

{% capture overview %}
This page describes the Sensor - Server Sub-Architecture.
{% endcapture %}

{% capture body %}

## Description

In this Sub-Architecture, a HoneyTrap Sensor is being installed within the network. Any connections being made to the HoneyTrap Sensor are considered malicious, and therefore logged and/or forwarded. Hereby the HoneyTrap Server is being configured to listen to incoming requests from the HoneyTrap Sensor.

## Use Cases

* Detection: using HoneyTrap in sensor mode enables detection of malicious activity.
* Insights: making it easy to collect payloads being used by attackers.

## Sensor Configuration

The HoneyTrap Sensor has to be configured in such a way that it responds to all incoming connections. Therefore it is necessary to specify a raw listener on an interface, specified in the `config-sensor.toml` file.

## Server Configuration

The server needs to be configured so that it accepts logs being generated by the sensor(s) are accepted. This can be done by eighter sending the data to an existing server, or using a Docker Compose script. This is all explained in the [Sensor Setup](/docs/setup/sensor/install-sensor/) pages.

{% endcapture %}


{% capture whatsnext %}
* Learn more about the [Agent - Server](/docs/concepts/framework/sub-architecture/agent-server/) Architecture.
* Learn more about the [Server Standalone](/docs/concepts/framework/sub-architecture/sensor-server/) Architecture.
* Learn more about [The HoneyTrap Sensor](/docs/concepts/framework/honeytrap-sensor/) here.
* Learn more about [The HoneyTrap Server](/docs/concepts/framework/honeytrap-server/) here.

{% endcapture %}

{% include templates/concept.md %}
